He will come back in this lecture we're going to do the expense modeling overview for the smoke Chile
case study.
So here's the expenses worksheet now for this case study here.
Think about a restaurant right.
Just think of all the things that you're going to have to spend money on.
So the biggest items list go over those first biggest items is going to be Coggs right your cost of
goods sold as most of your food costs and paper products.
You know things associated with selling your item.
Now the reason I did it this way where we had a starting point and then a stabilized rate stabilized
rate should be something that you do research on in your industry that you target towards.
OK.
For a fast casual Mexican restaurant that's similar to like a portly food costs are going to be kind
of around this range.
OK.
But as a new restaurant what ends up happening is you sometimes tend to order more than you need.
You still are trying to figure out where to get it from.
How much you need in stock how to prep it so that you minimize waste.
So initially you're going to be a lot less efficient.
So initially it's going to take you more food items to get through in order to make the same amount
of sales.
So early on you're going to be less efficient.
That's something that we've seen with different restaurant concepts as you know.
It can be 20 to 30 percent less efficient in the beginning and it and can take a while to really become
more efficient usually at least nine months to a year.
Okay maybe sometimes longer but we'll see it a year and then the other big item is going to be the salary.
The end for salary to look at this two ways we're going to have a manager that has a base salary and
they're going to get a once a year bonus.
Okay.
And then we're going to have to maybe two assistant manager who we can change the headcount but you
probably don't need more than two assistant managers that are going to get paid at a higher hourly wage
than everyone else you know in the other hourly
who are going to get maybe 11 50 an hour ok for the other hour leaves and then these assistant managers
are going to get 16 50 an hour.
OK let's say the assistant managers are going to be full time.
They're going to be part time say 30 25 30 hours a week which is put 30 right now and you could think
of it this way a full time manager can be there for the hour of prep all the way to the 12 hours of
operations all the way through the end of you know to closing and shutting down the store.
Right.
They can come in at different points.
But if you have to assist the managers the assistant managers generally can open close the stores or
can alternate with the main manager.
Right.
And that gives the manager a little bit more leeway and they can come in during the most peak times
and then be gone during the slower times were a system manager can handle that.
Now the other Aurelia's you know we can have will take about three parts of the day if there's 12 hours
operation maybe we have three peak lunch hour and then we have three peak dinner hours.
Then the other six hours are just we'll just call them the other hours off peak hours and maybe maybe
during the off peak hours we don't need that many people we only need two people in the back and you
know two in the front but during the peak lunch and dinner hours many more maybe seven or even double
let's say eight people during those times so you have to do your scheduling accordingly.
OK and then now we're going to assume that better events takes five percent of is five percent of sales.
OK so that's two of the biggest cost items with that makes up the assumptions for the prime cost array
and here the other stuff well you know we've got rent and we have some of these other spends right that
we're just going to assume some sort of monthly rate for the space.
You know utilities might be higher repair maintenance might be lower but then these are going to grow
at some rate over time.
Okay.
Now another thing that we got to factor in is the transaction fees right.
Some people are going to pay with credit card and have to pay or 3 percent transaction fee to the credit
card company but not everyone's paying credit card.
So you make some assumption about how you know what percentage of transactions are credit card base
and which ones are not.
Then we can make some assumption around that.
And then the final assumptions here is here is the assumption for the growth rate of the wages.
If you move it to the other side I actually count them together.
OK.
Graaff wait for the wages and then here is a growth rate for the other expenses.
You know let me just reorganize this just to group them in a way that is more logical.
So we have these expenses in this way.
Now the average days open per day per month.
This is something that we need to calculate the actual labor costs for the Arlene's because we're looking
at hours in a day.
So we need to calculate how many hours in a month.
Right.
That's where it's coming in.
So once we have those assumptions and started looking at the actual expenses Well the first thing we
do is not really the expenses but the startup costs.
So we have the startup period we have the costs and which ones corresponding to the different parts
of the startup period.
And then that together gives us the total start up costs right.
All the start of expenses.
And after we officially open but some of it's going on in the grand opening period.
Okay.
And then we usually want to put the growth rate related stuff near the top as well.
So some of the information are based as a percentage of sales so we want to push the sales line from
the revenue part into here and then we can start calculating things so payment ones is you know 55 percent
of the sales is credit card base and then we're charging 3 percent of that.
So basically the net sales times the 55 percent times the 3 percent we get the transaction fee and then
that gets calculated and the food costs because it has a moving percentage we got to first calculate
the percentage rate.
So we get to say hey it starts out on Grand Opening starts at this high rate cogs rate and then over
time it becomes more efficient until you kind of average this food cost rate.
So then we have that schedule.
Then we multiply that percentage times sales to get big cogs for that month.
Now for the other big items the salary stuff what we're going to treat them separately right.
We have the manager part where we have the salary and then we have the bonus.
So the salary.
It's a recurring thing we're paying them.
You know as soon as they're joining.
Right.
So for this one we're hiring them while training because you got to train them you need them to help
you train the associates so you're paying them that month.
And then they're getting paid.
You know then starting from the training through the grand opening and then through the opening but
then we'll do the annual bonuses starting from the grand opening.
So so every every 12 months after that they get that little bonus here.
OK.
And then for the assistant managers can be calculated similarly as the Israelis were looking at the
head count.
You know this is hours per week.
So we're just going to multiply that by four to get a month.
Right.
And then multiply it by the hourly rate so we get the assistant manager rates here.
And again we're going to hire them during training for the enrollees.
You know we should probably hire the Arab League during training too.
Right now I have them only coming in during the grand opening.
So what we'll do is to either a grand opening and it's included in the active or during training
because it's kind of either or I can just add them together and it will take one of the other ones so
case I'm going to copy these two cells here and then I want to piece it over and then right now it starts
with the training but you know for training we really don't need that much right.
And kind of maybe just need a little bit.
So what I might do is make it so that I go if
if the training is equal to one then it's whatever the value is but we're just going to use We're just
going to multiply it by maybe a quarter let's say we're only going to need a week's worth of pay for
the training.
OK.
They don't need to be operating every day all day.
Right.
Otherwise it's the whole thing.
OK.
So so we do that I can make it so that during training it's only a quarter you know wherever the training
is.
Now the reason it's in the formula and not just you know here the cell times 25 is because well what
if training you know what if this moves around if we change our assumptions.
Now this part right here for what I put in for training is going to move if the timing of the training
moves.
OK.
So that looks more reasonable.
We're not going to have for you know all these rallies on during the training month.
OK.
So then that gives us total wages when we sum those up and then we can calculate the benefits they take
taken just this percentage of the sales.
And then when we add benefits in total wages we have the total labor right here.
And these are the other overhead.
So like you know utilities repairmen and supplies a lot of those things we're not going to be doing
that while we're building out.
But you know during the bill that you're still going to be paying rent.
So.
So how to pay rent.
Right.
While you're setting up you're still paying rent.
So that's where that's coming in.
It's only some.
All of these up here all of these elements are going to have the actual cash flow on a monthly basis
for all of these periods and again down here.
We can then sum all of these together tally them together for the the year to see what it looks like
for a full year.
Now the next lecture we're going to look at the revenue and expenses together and then see how much
capital we actually need for starting this restaurant.